daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/http.md, before:

---
type: docs
title: "HTTP binding spec"
linkTitle: "HTTP"
description: "Detailed documentation on the HTTP binding component"
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/http/"
---

## Setup Dapr component

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
spec:
  type: bindings.http
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: http://something.com
```

## Spec metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Binding support | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|--------|--------|---------|
| url                | Y        | Output |The base URL of the HTTP endpoint to invoke | `http://host:port/path`, `http://myservice:8000/customers`

## Binding support

This component supports **output binding** with the following [HTTP methods/verbs](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec9.html):

- `create` : For backward compatibility and treated like a post
- `get` :  Read data/records
- `head` : Identical to get except that the server does not return a response body
- `post` : Typically used to create records or send commands
- `put` : Update data/records
- `patch` : Sometimes used to update a subset of fields of a record
- `delete` : Delete a data/record
- `options` : Requests for information about the communication options available (not commonly used)
- `trace` : Used to invoke a remote, application-layer loop- back of the request message (not commonly used)

### Request

#### Operation metadata fields

All of the operations above support the following metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| path               | N        | The path to append to the base URL. Used for accessing specific URIs     | `"/1234"`, `"/search?lastName=Jones"`
| Headers*           | N        | Any fields that have a capital first letter are sent as request headers  | `"Content-Type"`, `"Accept"`

#### Retrieving data

To retrieve data from the HTTP endpoint, invoke the HTTP binding with a `GET` method and the following JSON body:

```json
{
  "operation": "get"
}
```

Optionally, a path can be specified to interact with resource URIs:

```json
{
  "operation": "get",
  "metadata": {
    "path": "/things/1234"
  }
}
```

### Response

The response body contains the data returned by the HTTP endpoint.  The `data` field contains the HTTP response body as a byte slice (Base64 encoded via curl). The `metadata` field contains:

| Field              | Required | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| statusCode         | Y        | The [HTTP status code](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html) | `200`, `404`, `503`
| status             | Y        | The status description | `"200 OK"`, `"201 Created"`
| Headers*           | N        | Any fields that have a capital first letter are sent as request headers  | `"Content-Type"`

#### Example

**Requesting the base URL**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\" }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get" }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

**Requesting a specific path**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\", \"metadata\": { \"path\": \"/things/1234\" } }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get", "metadata": { "path": "/things/1234" } }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Sending and updating data

To send data to the HTTP endpoint, invoke the HTTP binding with a `POST`, `PUT`, or `PATCH` method and the following JSON body:

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
Any metadata field that starts with a capital letter is passed as a request header.
For example, the default content type is `application/json; charset=utf-8`. This can be overridden be setting the `Content-Type` metadata field.
{{% /alert %}}

```json
{
  "operation": "post",
  "data": "content (default is JSON)",
  "metadata": {
    "path": "/things",
    "Content-Type": "application/json; charset=utf-8"
  }
}
```

#### Example

**Posting a new record**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"post\", \"data\": \"YOUR_BASE_64_CONTENT\", \"metadata\": { \"path\": \"/things\" } }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "post", "data": "YOUR_BASE_64_CONTENT", "metadata": { "path": "/things" } }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Using HTTPS

The HTTP binding can also be used with HTTPS endpoints by configuring the Dapr sidecar to trust the server's SSL certificate.


1. Update the binding URL to use `https` instead of `http`.
1. Refer [How-To: Install certificates in the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref install-certificates >}}), to install the SSL certificate in the sidecar.

### Example

#### Update the binding component

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
spec:
  type: bindings.http
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: https://my-secured-website.com # Use HTTPS
```

#### Install the SSL certificate in the sidecar


{{< tabs Self-Hosted Kubernetes >}}

{{% codetab %}}
When the sidecar is not running inside a container, the SSL certificate can be directly installed on the host operating system.

Below is an example when the sidecar is running as a container. The SSL certificate is located on the host computer at `/tmp/ssl/cert.pem`.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  my-app:
    # ...
  dapr-sidecar:
    image: "daprio/daprd:1.8.0"
    command: [
      "./daprd",
     "-app-id", "myapp",
     "-app-port", "3000",
     ]
    volumes:
        - "./components/:/components"
        - "/tmp/ssl/:/certificates" # Mount the certificates folder to the sidecar container at /certificates
    environment:
      - "SSL_CERT_DIR=/certificates" # Set the environment variable to the path of the certificates folder
    depends_on:
      - my-app
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

The sidecar can read the SSL certificate from a variety of sources. See [How-to: Mount Pod volumes to the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref kubernetes-volume-mounts >}}) for more. In this example, we store the SSL certificate as a Kubernetes secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic myapp-cert --from-file /tmp/ssl/cert.pem
```

The YAML below is an example of the Kubernetes deployment that mounts the above secret to the sidecar and sets `SSL_CERT_DIR` to install the certificates.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: myapp
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
      annotations:
        dapr.io/enabled: "true"
        dapr.io/app-id: "myapp"
        dapr.io/app-port: "8000"
        dapr.io/volume-mounts: "cert-vol:/certificates" # Mount the certificates folder to the sidecar container at /certificates
        dapr.io/env: "SSL_CERT_DIR=/certificates" # Set the environment variable to the path of the certificates folder
    spec:
      volumes:
        - name: cert-vol
          secret:
            secretName: myapp-cert
...
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Invoke the binding securely

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\" }" \
      https://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get" }' \
      https://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}


## Related links

- [Basic schema for a Dapr component]({{< ref component-schema >}})
- [Bindings building block]({{< ref bindings >}})
- [How-To: Trigger application with input binding]({{< ref howto-triggers.md >}})
- [How-To: Use bindings to interface with external resources]({{< ref howto-bindings.md >}})
- [Bindings API reference]({{< ref bindings_api.md >}})
- [How-To: Install certificates in the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref install-certificates >}})

Commit message:

Add treatNon200AsError flag to http binding docs

daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/http.md, after:

---
type: docs
title: "HTTP binding spec"
linkTitle: "HTTP"
description: "Detailed documentation on the HTTP binding component"
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/http/"
---

## Setup Dapr component

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
spec:
  type: bindings.http
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: http://something.com
```

## Spec metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Binding support | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|--------|--------|---------|
| url                | Y        | Output |The base URL of the HTTP endpoint to invoke | `http://host:port/path`, `http://myservice:8000/customers`

## Binding support

This component supports **output binding** with the following [HTTP methods/verbs](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec9.html):

- `create` : For backward compatibility and treated like a post
- `get` :  Read data/records
- `head` : Identical to get except that the server does not return a response body
- `post` : Typically used to create records or send commands
- `put` : Update data/records
- `patch` : Sometimes used to update a subset of fields of a record
- `delete` : Delete a data/record
- `options` : Requests for information about the communication options available (not commonly used)
- `trace` : Used to invoke a remote, application-layer loop- back of the request message (not commonly used)

### Request

#### Operation metadata fields

All of the operations above support the following metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| path               | N        | The path to append to the base URL. Used for accessing specific URIs     | `"/1234"`, `"/search?lastName=Jones"`
| treatNon200AsError | N        | If this is set to anything other than `true`, responses will be returned regardless of the upstream status code | `true`, `false`
| Headers*           | N        | Any fields that have a capital first letter are sent as request headers  | `"Content-Type"`, `"Accept"`

#### Retrieving data

To retrieve data from the HTTP endpoint, invoke the HTTP binding with a `GET` method and the following JSON body:

```json
{
  "operation": "get"
}
```

Optionally, a path can be specified to interact with resource URIs:

```json
{
  "operation": "get",
  "metadata": {
    "path": "/things/1234"
  }
}
```

#### Handling errors

The default behavior of this binding to return an error if the binding's HTTP endpoint returns a status code outside of 200-299, which means that no response data is transmitted 
as part of the API call to Dapr. To alter this behavior, set the metadata key `treatNon200AsError` to `false`, this will return the response from the HTTP endpoint no matter 
what status code is returned by the downstream request. 

### Response

The response body contains the data returned by the HTTP endpoint.  The `data` field contains the HTTP response body as a byte slice (Base64 encoded via curl). The `metadata` field contains:

| Field              | Required | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|
| statusCode         | Y        | The [HTTP status code](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html) | `200`, `404`, `503`
| status             | Y        | The status description | `"200 OK"`, `"201 Created"`
| Headers*           | N        | Any fields that have a capital first letter are sent as request headers  | `"Content-Type"`

#### Example

**Requesting the base URL**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\" }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get" }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

**Requesting a specific path**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\", \"metadata\": { \"path\": \"/things/1234\" } }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get", "metadata": { "path": "/things/1234" } }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Sending and updating data

To send data to the HTTP endpoint, invoke the HTTP binding with a `POST`, `PUT`, or `PATCH` method and the following JSON body:

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
Any metadata field that starts with a capital letter is passed as a request header.
For example, the default content type is `application/json; charset=utf-8`. This can be overridden be setting the `Content-Type` metadata field.
{{% /alert %}}

```json
{
  "operation": "post",
  "data": "content (default is JSON)",
  "metadata": {
    "path": "/things",
    "Content-Type": "application/json; charset=utf-8"
  }
}
```

#### Example

**Posting a new record**

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"post\", \"data\": \"YOUR_BASE_64_CONTENT\", \"metadata\": { \"path\": \"/things\" } }" \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "post", "data": "YOUR_BASE_64_CONTENT", "metadata": { "path": "/things" } }' \
      http://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Using HTTPS

The HTTP binding can also be used with HTTPS endpoints by configuring the Dapr sidecar to trust the server's SSL certificate.


1. Update the binding URL to use `https` instead of `http`.
1. Refer [How-To: Install certificates in the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref install-certificates >}}), to install the SSL certificate in the sidecar.

### Example

#### Update the binding component

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
spec:
  type: bindings.http
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url
    value: https://my-secured-website.com # Use HTTPS
```

#### Install the SSL certificate in the sidecar


{{< tabs Self-Hosted Kubernetes >}}

{{% codetab %}}
When the sidecar is not running inside a container, the SSL certificate can be directly installed on the host operating system.

Below is an example when the sidecar is running as a container. The SSL certificate is located on the host computer at `/tmp/ssl/cert.pem`.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  my-app:
    # ...
  dapr-sidecar:
    image: "daprio/daprd:1.8.0"
    command: [
      "./daprd",
     "-app-id", "myapp",
     "-app-port", "3000",
     ]
    volumes:
        - "./components/:/components"
        - "/tmp/ssl/:/certificates" # Mount the certificates folder to the sidecar container at /certificates
    environment:
      - "SSL_CERT_DIR=/certificates" # Set the environment variable to the path of the certificates folder
    depends_on:
      - my-app
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

The sidecar can read the SSL certificate from a variety of sources. See [How-to: Mount Pod volumes to the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref kubernetes-volume-mounts >}}) for more. In this example, we store the SSL certificate as a Kubernetes secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic myapp-cert --from-file /tmp/ssl/cert.pem
```

The YAML below is an example of the Kubernetes deployment that mounts the above secret to the sidecar and sets `SSL_CERT_DIR` to install the certificates.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: myapp
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: myapp
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: myapp
      annotations:
        dapr.io/enabled: "true"
        dapr.io/app-id: "myapp"
        dapr.io/app-port: "8000"
        dapr.io/volume-mounts: "cert-vol:/certificates" # Mount the certificates folder to the sidecar container at /certificates
        dapr.io/env: "SSL_CERT_DIR=/certificates" # Set the environment variable to the path of the certificates folder
    spec:
      volumes:
        - name: cert-vol
          secret:
            secretName: myapp-cert
...
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Invoke the binding securely

{{< tabs Windows Linux >}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d "{ \"operation\": \"get\" }" \
      https://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -d '{ "operation": "get" }' \
      https://localhost:<dapr-port>/v1.0/bindings/<binding-name>
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}


## Related links

- [Basic schema for a Dapr component]({{< ref component-schema >}})
- [Bindings building block]({{< ref bindings >}})
- [How-To: Trigger application with input binding]({{< ref howto-triggers.md >}})
- [How-To: Use bindings to interface with external resources]({{< ref howto-bindings.md >}})
- [Bindings API reference]({{< ref bindings_api.md >}})
- [How-To: Install certificates in the Dapr sidecar]({{< ref install-certificates >}})
